Well, if they care to an opportunity to say something, otherwise we're going to go right back to opening up to the questions from the floor.
So Bob, Bill, or Alice, if either of you would like to say something now, please do.
If not, we're going to just start with the question.
I'd just like to say I was hearing some of the questions before about
collections and the maturation, one of the sort of amplified statement I made on my comment earlier this morning is that many of the older collections are matured in the sense that they have most of the good material within that subject matter
It's very much like in the art world of museums, where people think that they own museum-quality material, and therefore any museum of any quality should accept that material.
Well, by definition, they have slacker space, and what you perceive as museum-quality material may not be.
But there's hundreds of thousands of institutions in this country that do have it.
And I think one of the problems that collectors have is a lack of information, a lack of knowledge about other places.
I had to sort of force a personality to find out a lot about special collections and available venues in which to
give material or provide access to this material.
And so I don't think that many of the older established institutions necessarily communicate the message as to what they want.
I said in my comments that you have to hone your own ideas of who you are.
You have to define the whole piece of the special collection and then reach out and tell people who you are.
I don't think the job is as well done as it should be among most institutions.
Obviously, there are exceptions, but I think that's a fundamental flaw in today, particularly with digitization and all the changing.
I said before, there's not many manuscripts for
special collections in the 21st century.
What are you going to do?
Are you going to become just a collector of first editions with fine wrappers and be the West Coast dealers?
And just deal with those kinds of books?
You've got gold deals and unique materials.
And so what type of unique materials appears earlier?
What happens with the 21st century material?
What are you going to do with that?
So you've got to define yourself.
Well, I have some comments on various things that were said in the last period.
The first thing I wanted to say something about is the question of scarcity, since several people doubted my views on it.
I don't doubt at all the material is going to keep turning up.
If we take as a criteria that we're spending all the money we've got to buy stuff, I agree.
I almost always had spent all the money I had to buy stock.
But what am I getting?
In 1984, I was pleased as punch, and I sold a beautiful set of Lewis and Clark for $7,500.
Now it's a $125,000 book.
The books that were once common have become uncommon or rare.
I'm talking about in the world of rare books.
And books that were once common in beautiful condition, where one could be very picky about the way the books work physically, are books where now one has to continually compromise on those issues.
So we all make discoveries.
I mean, that's what makes life exciting for all of us, is finding things.
And there's still wonderful things to find, and there are wonderful things still out there.
But the addicts have largely emptied out.
And it's a feeling I constantly have, having been somebody who's fought both at the high end and trolling through the backwoods.
But there's not as much out there.
There are not as many trunks with Huckleberry Finn manuscripts out there as there used to be.
But I do agree that the real change and real development is going to be in the opening of the new fields.
And I think there still remain a lot of things that have yet to be capped.
And I think that that's where the imagination and the persistence of the collector really comes to the fore.
I'll give you one example.
There have been several allusions here to the Yale's Book Collecting Prize, the Van Sindri Prize, which I've been a judge of for some time.
And I have to say one of the most exciting collections that was ever entered in the prize
was a collection of a kid who had spent his junior, summer between his junior and senior year in Poland in 1981 during the Solidarity Summer.
And he performed a mini Thompson-esque exercise by filling two suitcases with every piece of ephemera, every poster, every broadside, every handout that came his way.
And he hauled them back, we gave him the prize, and he gave the collection to Yale.
And that was, that's a tremendous time capsule, an irreproducible time capsule.
And in its own way, and that was a moment in history, but these things happen all the time.
I think that there are a lot of areas, particularly in the ephemeral world, the world of real life, the world of popular culture, that remain to be explored and that are going to be of increasing interest as time goes by.
Finally, I'd like to say that I agree very much with what Selby said about exhibitions.
And it strikes me that as, I've been very interested in library exhibitions all through my career.
I think that books can be presented in a way where they are exciting, where they engage people, where they interest people in books.
I think it does help if your donor hasn't given you a requirement that they cannot be shown open, which does cut down the interest.
But I think that recording those exhibitions is as important as putting them on.
Having done a number, I know that if you've done an exhibition without a catalog, it doesn't exist.
But if you do an exhibition with a catalog, it becomes a reference tool and a monument.
And when we look at the libraries who made a practice of that, like the Lilly, that's produced a wonderful series of exhibition catalogs, we see what kind of function that can have, what kind of outreach that can have.
Last night, John Cole and I were talking about the wonderful series of state catalogs that the Library of Congress did.
And I still find those.
wonderful resources and very sightable resources.
They give a very good picture of the resources of the Library of Congress, but also are generally usable as reference.
So I guess I would say to everybody who has the potential of putting on the exhibition, make sure you do a catalog, because if there's a way to spread the word, that's it.
I just want to add one thing to what Bill said.
I've been experiencing a great deal of frustration.
I've been looking for a cataloger to catalog part of my collection for a lot of obvious reasons that were mortal.
And I've had terrible problems finding catalogers
that can catalog if they're willing to come to Cleveland or are living in Cleveland, there aren't any, will catalog a rare book collection.
John Linsett, who lived in Cleveland, is a fine collector, had to send some music collection over to Europe to get the catalog because he couldn't find anyone in the United States in this area that was qualified.
So that's another issue.
You can talk about
I guess I would also like to call our attention to one sort of group within our community that's been mentioned a couple of times today but really isn't represented in that guise, and that's the scholar or the faculty member.
And a few of the comments that I'd like to make along those lines actually connect very nicely with Bill's remarks about exhibitions.
First of all, the sort of academic as collector.
I was saying to Jean Ashton earlier this morning that although Columbia's is one of the special collections that I really know best, it was conspicuously absent from my remarks.
she was observing how many of their collections, and this is very true, of Chicago's as well, were formed by faculty members just buying books for their research.
They would never call themselves bibliophiles, not that they see anything wrong with that term, they just didn't see themselves in that way.
A lot of this was happening in those post-war years.
They had Guggenheims or a year of research in Europe and books were cheap and there weren't scholarly reprints and they were just buying these books.
they have become very important parts of many special collections.
And although in some ways they have been the first ones perhaps to be eclipsed from the market or the collecting community because of what's happened in crisis, they also often represent the cutting edge of scholarship and the creative collecting that we've
been talking about and to sort of connect that back to Bill's point about exhibitions.
At Chicago, we very actively try to engage faculty and graduate students in doing our exhibitions.
We feel that's a way to really get them into the collections, to get the subject expertise that we need.
which amongst the curatorial staff, you know, it's just not always there in the areas we want to do collections about.
And so earlier this fall, we had George Chauncey, a historian whose work
Gay New York, some of you may be familiar with, do a sort of comparable show on the history of homosexuality, the relationship between research on homosexuality and the city of Chicago.
We didn't call it Sex and the City, but we wanted to.
And in the course of that exhibition, working on that exhibition with a graduate student of Georgia's, it became apparent that he had ties
throughout the collecting community in an area that we were very interested in building our collections with.
So again, those of us who work in academic institutions draw on our faculty because we want to know what they're working on.
We want to know what areas we need to be building in.
And they often have either the collections that they are building for their own work or the contacts with people who are generating these materials, fugitive travel collections.
travel guides going back to the 50s and 60s that are just a remarkable resource.
So again, faculty can also be another resource for collectors.
A lot of what I think all of us try to do.
We talked about the curatorial expertise and mentoring that goes on.
or information sharing between collectors and libraries.
But again, using our faculty in that conversation is something that can bring a collector into contact with someone who is so knowledgeable within our own worlds.
I just want to follow up that a little further and say, one of the best series of exhibition catalogs in modern times has been prepared by scholars who are not bibliographers.
is the John Carter Brown series that they've done on the relationship of different European countries with the development of the Americas, and those are a wonderful series for those of you who haven't seen it.
Secondly, I would say that I think all of us should be innovative about trying to sneak books into other contexts, and here I think of
one of the most wonderful shows, I think, of the last 10 or 15 years, the Seeds of Change show that the Smithsonian put on, which was about the migration of plants and things back and forth across the Atlantic, right from Columbus on.
And that show had many books in it, in a very popular context, a very popular show, where the books really came alive in the context of artifacts
and a show that at first glance might not have had anything to do with rare books, but did there.
One of the things I observed today was that there was a theme that came through was that the dealers were having more success cultivating private collectors than the institutions.
And during the afternoon session, Mary Lee was talking about the responsibilities that the librarians had and that maybe they didn't have enough time to be able to cultivate because of the institutional responsibilities they had.
And then there's the layer of bureaucracy above
which may be the development office, or maybe the institutional, the president has his own focus and own desire, which way, or who he wants to contact and how it can be done, and who is allowed to do that.
The question, I guess, the point I want to make is for Alice, who is sort of representing the institutions here, is do the institutions have to find people who have that capacity to
that knows books and have the experience with rare books and also have the responsibility and are hired and given the responsibility to contact the private collectors so that the institution is becoming very active but there's a responsibility given to an individual so that a great part of their work is to develop the relationship with the private collectors.
I mean, is that a future?
Do you see that?
Do you mean, is it difficult for us to find these people, or is it difficult to... Does it become a priority for the institution, or should it become a priority?
Yeah, I think that I may be among the fortunate few.
It's not a conflict that I've ever felt.
I feel encouraged and...
able to do that, that that is very much considered part of what I'm there to do.
I think there may be sort of things in back of your question that I may not be seeing or hearing because although certainly there are some collectors for whom
There's a greater institutional interest for another purpose and that can sometimes create a different dynamic if there's a trustee who is also a collector.
But I don't think, at least in my situation, that there hasn't been a way to sort of make
my contacts feel very open and book-focused and not in conflict with the other goals of the institution or relationships that the institution might have.
Are you suggesting that development people should participate with the libraries and developing the collectors?
I guess I'm suggesting that the dealers have a very strong incentive to meet and develop
private collectors, on an institutional level, because of the problems of development office and so forth, the institutions have a more difficult time giving responsibility on a curatorial level or on a career book level.
Yeah, that clarifies it a little bit.
There is a very formal process of clearance.
at the University of Chicago that I think is not uncommon at most institutions, but that would only be if we were to approach somebody for a very substantial cash gift.
Gifts in kind are really treated very, very differently.
In fact, I think that the real educational process that I've
found to be very worthwhile but somewhat time-consuming is educating our central development staff about the libraries, collecting areas, and some of the things that we were talking about this morning because it
has been the case that sometimes someone from the development office will go to visit with someone and see some books that look old on the shelf and say, oh, I'm sure our library would love them.
So it's almost the other way to make sure that it's understood that I'm always interested in knowing that and following up on that, but that understanding how the collection might fit in
is something that really is the process we've been talking about this morning and really needs to be handled by someone who has that knowledge.
It really does make a difference who's at the top, though, in universities, as I think we all know.
I mean, I think there's no question that Norman Byron's path in building a new wing with JCP and so forth was greatly aided by the fact that Martin Gregorian had gone from NYP out of being president of Brown.
There was a president who was very, very conscious
of the issues of special collections.
And certainly I know while the present administration at Yale has been very supportive of the library, having somebody like Bart G. Mahdi as president, a man who worked in the library and used the library and thought of the reading of the Bible to use his second home, made a difference.
It helped.
From the audience.
Whoever's wondering, are you the only mic wondering then?
Thank you.
My name is Cheryl Thurber.
I'm actually, is it on?
You're fine.
Okay.
I'm actually both a collector and a scholar, and I do appreciate your comments in terms of the importance of scholarship.
I think that side of things, use in scholarship, is what we haven't had much discussion of today.
And I think it's an area that
Libraries, in particular, need to figure out ways in terms of reaching out to scholars.
My own frustration, both as a scholar and a collector, has frequently been, there are things that I want to see in archives, I don't find them, therefore I build my own collections, I build my own collections, and I say,
Well, it's not the high spots, the rare stuff.
I have the broad-based things.
What do I deal with my collections after I'm through with my research?
And I've certainly gone through various collections in my lifetime.
As I mentioned at lunchtime to someone, I started off collecting comic books as a child.
And I still have an enormous record collection that I'm not quite sure what to do with.
Tons of, and I say literally tons of 78s.
But I think we really need to see more effort in terms of reaching out to use, to scholarship.
If all you've got is collections, then what is the point of it?
Do things have to be used?
We have to gather information.
Curiosity is generally what drove it in the first place.
And if you're not continuing curiosity, then it's a dead collection.
Before people on the panel respond, could you clarify or go into slightly more detail?
I have several librarians' eyebrows.
Why not?
those of us who work daily creating lives and making lives much easier for scholars.
Could you go a little into what it is that a library would do beyond creating fellowships and the additional things that would be considered outreach to scholars?
I think creating fellowships I think is a very important part of it because most scholars are stuck in
not having the funds to be able to travel.
So travel grants certainly make a tremendous difference.
But it's also, I think we need to see more in the way of fellowships that are coming from a variety of institutions.
If you're working on a specific topic, one of the topics I've been working on is 19th Century Sunday School.
There are a few things in a few places.
No single place, in a sense, has an appropriate fellowship or would it work.
But I think we need to have more fellowships available
to allow scholars in terms of visiting a lot of collections.
I know the American Antiquarian Society, the Chicago Historical Society, there are a couple of joint fellowships.
I think we need to see more of those kinds of things, but also things like exhibits.
bringing in the people who know the subject matter.
I mean, I've been to so many exhibits over the years that said, why didn't they call on this person or that person who knows the topic?
And I think that's an area, whether it's libraries or museums, I think we need to draw upon subject matter experts far more than they've done.
That's something the libraries can certainly use.
Maybe this is too commonplace, but I'm interested in hearing your comments on the notion of critical mass as a nexus between the collector and the librarian.
We have had some discussion of books.
This artifact builds more or less phrase, the icon embedded in the artifact, but that passion of collecting does lead to the completers, the people like me who want.
all of everything, and libraries and collectors seem to come together here.
One copy of Blair's Lectures of Bridge on rhetoric might seem to be enough for some people, but if you really want to get a feel of what was going on in, let's say, before 1850 in formal education, you'd want to see all
50 of them lined up there.
And you can't do that unless you go to Harvard and stop by my house for a drink somewhere.
I'd say as an institution that has over 150 copies of the Leaves of Grass, I haven't had a problem with this conversation.
I don't know if any of us can hear the word critical mass without thinking of Bill's critical mess in the New Yorker profile of Michael Dimon.
In a sense, yes, there is a point that collectors reach and that libraries reach where you begin to make connections and see things that individually you might not.
But I guess I would say that for both collectors and for institutions, it very much depends on
What kind of collection you're building?
What is it something that is focusing on the sort of printing and publishing history, the bibliographical story behind that text?
or is it the text itself and that will sort of determine the number of copies of the leaves of grass that you know sort of fulfill that need so I guess I find it hard to answer in a vacuum because I think the answer would vary so much depending on the goals of the collection and it's also
as you point out, very much a place where collectors and libraries meet because sometimes it is the marriage, sorry Mary, but even the passionate marriage of those two forces that creates that critical mass.
In other words, that if you as a collector are working with a library that is a natural fit, one of the reasons is because your collection
will fill out and really deepen the resources related to that particular collecting area that the library can make available.
I think your collection on rhetoric is also an excellent example of a topic where the original artifact makes a great deal of difference because I would suspect that many of your texts are annotated.
And as the history of the book develops, the reader response to the text
in the form of annotation can become increasingly significant to all of us.
So having multiple copies or multiple editions that have some kind of added significance to them from the reader becomes tremendously important to have in one place and provide a scholar with an opportunity they wouldn't have otherwise if they had to go from one institution to another.
A lot of the books have female names after the student.
female institute of learning you never heard of.
Remember, ownership does not equal readership.
I would like to comment on critical mass is a variable term that really degrades it so subjective.
Most special collections are return institutions.
that have multiple collections and trying to identify overlay what they need or would like versus what the collector has are quite often incompatible.
But the collector often doesn't know what the institutions need or have.
What a collector has to do is recognize that at some point in their, after they have mass material, and that amassing of the material becomes an organized collection, that's sort of a logic.
Then at some point it's approaching, coming to rest.
At that point, the collector may have to look for the institution, because the institutions aren't gonna look for you, and say, well, I have this collection, and 90% or 80% of it
has value to that institution, and then you negotiate.
But the fact is that there's an inconsistency, and the institutions overall have not done as aggressively as I think they should have in educating the collectors as to their wants, their goals.
They need to define it and sort of have an organic hold to the whole process.
I don't think that mass is there yet.
I think you always have that struggle at least in the next decade or so.
I'm listening to a lot of concerns about passion in the institution because we all know that collectors have passion and both sellers definitely have passion about the things that they're selling and the things that they're collecting.
I don't think, I mean, as a young librarian, I understand this concern because I see it.
I see the lack of it, and I see it in pockets in the institutions, the sort of older institutions, Harvard and Brown, and also sometimes in the sort of struggling special collections of, smaller special collections in other libraries.
And I don't think that you can institutionalize passion
But I think that you can, I mean, thereby it's very main nature, but I do think that you can value the passion that your workers have and give them a little bit more room to indulge in that and give them a little more encouragement to outreach, so to speak, to collectors, to booksellers, and that sort of thing.
And so I guess my sort of two cents is that
when you're thinking about development, when you're thinking about reallocating things, thinking about staffing a little bit, padding your staff a little bit more.
I don't know if padding is the right term, but to give more time, I mean, I love to just sort of browse through the dense collection of the JCB and re-realize what a wonderful place it is and other collections like it, but sometimes there's just not the time.
certainly when people come and realize things about our collection i love it because they give me a new perspective on something on a book that i've handled two or three times a day i've never thought of in this particular aspect so you know it's got to be a loosening in some respects stop clenching so much you know when you're thinking about rare books don't you know shudder when someone picks up your books you know uh
try to get people to handle them more, do more outreach.
That's, I think, what I think is very important for librarians to try to do.
Actually, I'll rise to the defense of my profession now, because we spent the afternoon pretending that librarians don't have passion, and I would argue very strongly that many of us who devoted our entire careers to living and working with our books do that on a basis of passion, and that I think that's one of the central shared
themes that we have here today.
So I would just like to put a word in for the considerable amount of time and energy that my colleagues place in this work.
Like any other field, there are a variety of personalities around materials.
Those are both handled well and badly by all three sectors.
So I'm not quite sure I would want
Many of my colleagues in this room have spent the last ten years opening up their collections, giving classes, doing exhibitions, producing things online, encouraging people to come in and work with the materials, would claim that that all comes from a sense of fashion, though I think your encouragement to give people more time and to understand that that's important to be developed is one that's well taken.
Well, I think it's important that you do, Mark.
But I also think that the people who were present here are almost by definition on the good side of this discussion.
And those of us, I think maybe more dealers, have been participants in some of the train wrecks that have resulted
For those who were in the basement in 1986, especially in the basement of the Franklin Institute, where they destroyed their rare book collection, or those who managed to make it to the unpublicized and tearing part of the British Art Office collection, which was held in the basement in Whitehall before they got out of the building.
Or for that matter, anybody who has, like myself, had half a ton of guillotine New York Public Library film books dumped on their front doorstep at 7 in the morning.
would have a different view of this.
So I do feel glad you said that, because I feel that we've been too hard on a lot of people here who do wonderful jobs.
But at the same time, when you've seen the graphic evidence of the system gone wrong, that's what I think makes collectors jumping.
Booksellers just have to deal with it.
A collector knows.
I mean, I've been about
in various special collections and libraries around the country.
Kind of, for some odd reason, something very normal.
And you know, when you're with someone, it's not so, it's passion's part of it, but it's someone who's a good book person.
And you don't have to .
And probably, in my personal experience, one of the examples I had was that Alice came to Cleveland once, not long ago, to look over my collection of visitors.
And she spent two hours.
I have a very large book, 1870.
And she spent three hours looking at this one book.
Now, that was, to me, passion.
And that, to me, reflects the kind of person that should be idealized in the special collection series.
Not always, but those are the kind of things you reach for.
Sorry.
Oh, no, not at all.
We'll talk about it later.
I think Merrily invoked the N-word earlier this afternoon.
And I guess I'm thinking increasingly toward the end of this day, more than I did at the beginning, that
In addition to marketing our collections, we sort of need to market what we're doing because, you know, people have, I and others have used the term communication, but we clearly, Mark spoke eloquently, I share all his views about how we define our work and what brings us to it and keeps us at it and that
is very much a commitment to working with scholars, opening the collections, working with collectors, sharing our passion.
But clearly that message is not sort of getting across.
And I think that one of the sea changes in libraries in the past few years is certainly an awareness that the library profession needs to market what it is doing, what it offers, why is it different from
what students get off Yahoo or if the library is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars licensing various electronic databases so faculty can get them on their desktops.
We need to be sure that faculty understand they get them on their desktops because the libraries are delivering it to them, not magically because they come there.
And so I think that the library profession itself is looking at what it needs to do to get the word out about what it's doing and why it's important.
to do a lot more of that as well.
I think we have time for one more question.
One quick one on Nick Basme.
A phrase I've heard at least three times today is dead collections.
A phrase I've heard used at least three times today is dead collections.
Terry used it.
My name is Nick Basme and I write about people such as Bob and Bill.
A phrase I've heard used at least three times today is dead collections.
Terry used it.
This woman over here used it.
I think someone else used it.
Number one, do you acknowledge that perhaps there are dead collections at your institutions?
Number one.
Number two, when you are negotiating with collectors for the possible benefaction or gift of collections, do they have to support the curriculum that you have at your institution?
Is that some sort of prerequisite like that?
I would like to think that there's, I wouldn't even want to put nine lives on a collection, but I think one of the great joys that I have seen is that a collection that was acquired to support a particular area of research interest 75 years ago,
people come back and look at it with a totally different set of eyes and see different things.
We've talked a lot about icons and artifacts and eye spots, you know, today and
trying to understand why when texts are available through octavo and any number of other you know what is the value of the artifact in in a library when the need for it as information container um is supplanted well you know as bill um mentioned in uh referring to the surge of interest in book history people look at these things now for dividing for the marginalia for the provenance for the evidence of of
what was the impact of that particular volume in anyone's life.
So I guess I would say that collections continue to be reborn and when I look at a collection I don't say what is the sort of one-to-one match with a curricular emphasis but how can we breathe life into it?
What can it tell us and therefore students and faculty that
the paperback, the CD-ROM hand, and then I go out and try to make that page to faculty who can use it.
Yeah, I'm gonna quickly tell a story to end this, because I believe there's no such thing as a net collection, that the reason great institutions exist is to preserve things for that moment when somebody needs them, when it will be the key that will open the door for them.
And again, out of the New York Public Library, the accessions, I'll tell you a little tale.
Michael Zinman, bless his heart, thought about half a tractor trailer load of things that had been filmed by the New York public and then got rid of.
And he and I spent days going through this stuff.
And in it, we found an Italian algebra book printed in Missoula, Montana in 1943 by Mimeograph.
Except it didn't say 1943.
On the front wrappers, it had the fascists and the year XXII.
In other words, the fascist date for 1943.
And we stared at this and said, what's this?
We had no idea.
I'd put it to one side.
Ten days later, the New York Times had a story about how a group of Italian-Americans
were starting a movement to get reparations from the U.S.
government for having been interned during the war as potential enemies of the United States in the same way that Japanese Americans successfully prosecuted such a suit.
And there's a picture of the primary concentration camp, which was Fort Missoula, Montana.
And I called Michael up.
I said, did you see this story?
I said, you realize what this means?
These people claim they were loyal Americans, but they were putting the fascist axis on the front cover and the fascist date.
That doesn't seem very loyal.
Michael immediately wrote a letter to the New York Times.
The New York Times editorial page called him up, and they said, well, this is a very serious charge.
We run this.
We're going to have a lot of people mad at it.
Where's your proof?
Michael said, well, go to the New York Public Library and look at the microfilm.
They called him back to ours later.
They said, well, we did, but there are no wrappers there.
There's no evidence of that.
And Michael said, well, just you wait.
He hopped in his car and drove down to the Times Building with the original.
Well, it turns out when they filmed it, they didn't film the wrappers.
So the New York Public Library collected this particular piece of evidence and it lay dormant without anybody looking at it for over half a century.
But then the moment came.
when suddenly it becomes a crucial piece of evidence.
And that's what a great research institution is for, to hold that piece of evidence until the moment it's needed and to preserve it in the form where it really will be evidence.
And that's what the New York Public Library had failed to do, because suddenly this piece becomes a crucial issue.
And the New York Times ran Michael's letter with the reproduction of the wrapper on the letter page.
But to me, that's what a research library is for.
There's no such thing as a dead collection.
Drawing to an end, I just had two final comments.
I know my wife would raise her eyebrows and I only have two comments.
The first is that I do believe there's a scarcity.
I wanted to add from before that there is a scarcity of material, but I believe that in a sense of, like I did for a theory of uncertainty, we're living in a period of richness.
The market is coming out with a great deal of material.
It may not be repeated again, we may not be able to see it, but the Freelander sale is coming up this month, and the other sales have come up before, and there are others I know of that are coming up, demonstrates that there's a continuation of material that's coming up that were bought in the last part of the last century, and that we're going to see this for some years to come, and then I suspect there will be a drying up of early material.
And the final comment is that
It's clear to me that the richness and the vitality of the red book market both in terms of special collections and dealers and certainly collectors is certainly evidenced by the people in this room.
So I applaud all of you for attending and thanking you for coming.
Effectively, this demonstrates the richness of what we're doing.
Any excitement?
And in closing, I would like to second that.
The agenda behind the questions that we originally posed many months ago before we put a flyer out for this,
was to create an opportunity for librarians and collectors and dealers to talk amongst each other about the things that they cared the most and to find out those aspects of our language that's different so we can come to a better understanding.
And given the buzz at lunch and at coffee break and presumably the buzz that will be going on at the reception in just a minute outside, I think we've succeeded
greatly, and is due to the audience, and to the hard-working SAT, both of the Rare Book and Special Questions Division, and the Center for the Book, both of whom put in a little time and energy and commitment to make a possible ceremony.
Thank you for making the Library of Congress for Book Forum's inaugural event a successful one.
Please carry home the questions and the lessons and the contacts you've made.
And we hope to see you in October for our next session.
And go enjoy yourselves in the lobby.